# Revenue Projections from Liencense Renewal and Platform Fees

## Table of Contents
- [Project Overview](#project-overview)
- [Data Source](#data-source)
- [Tool Used](#tool-used)
- [Data Cleaning and Preparation](Data-cleaning-and-preparation)
- [Exploratory Data Analysis](exploratory-data-analysis)
- [Data Analysis](data-analysis)
- [Results](Results)
- [Limitations](Limitations)
- [References](References)
- [Recommendations](Recommendations)
  
### Project Overview
This Data analysis project is focused on projecting revenue that would be generated by the Courier and Logistics Regulatory department (CLRD) of NIPOST (Nigeria Postal Services) in their first year of going all digital.
CLRD is a department in NIPOST responsible for the following;
    - REGISTRATION AND LICENSING OF COURIER COMPANIES
    - SETTING STANDARD FOR COURIER BUSINESS
    - MONITORING OF COURIER OPERATIONS
A solution is being built to aid above mentioned operations, therefore it is important to be guided by facts. 
Hence this project.
This Project was carried out based on a few assumptions and this assumptions are subject to change.
Breakdown of these assumptions are available in the project report.
The Dashboard for this analysis has been designed to capture whatever possible change/s that'd be made on the asumptions and then give us corresponding outcome/s of such.

### Data Source
The data Used in this project was collected greatly from the Courier & Logistics Regulatory Department of NIPOSt.
The rest of the data was populated based on existing information and the assumptions guiding this project.

## Tool Used
- Excel; Data Cleaning
- PowerBI; Data Analysis and Reporting

### Data Cleaning and Preparation
The data was populated and organised in Microsft Excel.
The following tasks were performed to prepare the data for analysis;
1. the data was loaded into power query and inspected,
2. Data Formating,
3. Assigned primary keys to the Categories,
4. Appended Queries
5. Loaded the Clean data into PowerBI

### Exploratory Data Analysis
- what would be the projected total revenue from License renewal and platform fee Assuming all licensed companies renue their linceses in the coming year?
- How many companies are licensed?
- compare the different license categories and find which would generate the highest revenue.
- What if the number of licensed companies increases or decreases, and platform fees changed, what would be the state of the revenue?

### Data Analysis
```Total Revenue = 
    [Revenue from PF Fee] + [Revenue Generated from License fee]
   ```
```National Category = 
    CALCULATE(
        DISTINCTCOUNT('FACT TABLE'[Licence_Number]) , 
        'FACT TABLE'[Category_ID] = "CAT2"
    )
  ```
```Revenue from PF Fee = 
    SUM(TransactionTable[ Platform Fee ])
  ```
```Assumed Projected Revenue from PF = 
   CALCULATE(
        [Revenue from PF Fee] * (1+ 'Platform Fee Change'[Platform Fee Change Value]/100),
        'FACT TABLE'[Category_ID] = "CAT2", 'FACT TABLE'[Category_ID] ="CAT3", 'FACT TABLE'[Category_ID] ="CAT4"
   )
  ```
```Assumed Platform Fee = 
    CALCULATE(
    150000 * (1+'Platform Fee Change'[Platform Fee Change Value]/100), 'FACT TABLE'[Category_ID] = "CAT2", 'FACT TABLE'[Category_ID] ="CAT3", 'FACT TABLE'[Category_ID] ="CAT4"
    )
  ```

### Results
The analysis results are summarised below;
- Project revenue is NGN 203,162,500, Revenue from License Renewals contributing NGN 134,192,500 and Platform Fee contributing NGN 68,250,000 of the total revenue
- total Companies licensed are 452;
- the national License category generates NGN 92,037,500 making it the category with the highest renvenue.
More information will be seen on the analysis report.

### Limitations
The major limitation to this project was the fact that NIPOst has no actual database and so research and data collection processes proved challenging and so i resorted to populating the data from the list of licensed companies, renewal fees, categories and and assumed platform fee.

### References
https://clrd.nipost.gov.ng/

### Recommendations
- I would recomend that the solution being provided for the CLRD provide room for appropraite data collection and record keeping, as data is necessary in decision making.
